---
layout: default
permalink: LIS_861_Spring_2014/week1.html
title: Week 1 (Jan 21-Jan 26) &mdash; HTML basics
---
#####Key questions
> How do I get HTML from my brain to my computer to my browser?

> How do I write a basic HTML file?

> Who's in this class with me, and what are we all doing here?

#####To read/watch
__Required__  
If needed: [Installing a text editor](https://openhatch.org/wiki/Boston_Python_Workshop_7/Friday#Goal_.232:_prepare_a_text_editor) (you can ignore the parts about Python and converting tabs to spaces)

If needed: _Head First HTML_, Ch. 1

[Basic HTML video](https://vimeo.com/84643135)

[Developer Tools video](https://vimeo.com/84643016)

Zeldman.  Before you Begin, Ch. 1-2, 5-6, 8

[Things I Wish Someone Had Told Me When I Was Learning How to Code.](https://medium.com/learning-to-code/565fc9dcb329)

#####Assignment
* Introduce yourself in the Introductions forum, and read your classmates'
  and instructor's introductions.
* Make sure you have a text editor. If you don't (or don't know what a text
  editor is or how it differs from a word processor), install one, using the 
  "Installing a text editor" instructions above.
* Make sure you can edit and save an HTML file in a text editor and view it in
  your browser. If you don't know how to do this, read _Head First HTML_, Chapter 
  1.
* If you've followed the text editor instructions, read Chapter 1, and you
  still can't edit and save an HTML file and view it in your browser, _ask 
  questions ASAP._ You can ask anonymously in the help forum if you prefer.
* Make sure you know where to find developer tools in your browser. _If you 
  cannot do this, ask questions ASAP._
* If any unfamiliar terms or concepts in Zeldman are unfamiliar to you, ask 
  questions in the Unfamiliar Terms? thread of the Week 1 discussion forum.
* Answer the other questions in the Week 1 discussion forum.
* We're all in this together, so make sure your classmates' questions get
  answered.  If you know the answers already, great. If you don't, use your
  ninja-like reference skills to help find answers (don't forget to explain
  your search strategy!).