---
layout: default
permalink: LIS_861_Spring_2014/week2.html
title: Week 15 (May 5-May 11) &mdash; Stakeholders and buy-in
---
#####Key questions

> Whom might you need to get on board when you implement a library technology 
> project?

> What obstacles might you encounter in getting buy-in?

> What strategies and tactics can you use to build an effective, two-way
> communications strategy that lets you get good technology work done?

#####Assignment
_Required_

* Read the Week 15 overview in Learn@UW. 
* Watch the embedded video and read the linked documents.
* Answer the two discussion forum questions.
* Don't forget about your [final project](./assignments/final_project.html) and 
  your [failure assessment](./assignments/failure_assessment.html), due at the end 
  of next week!

{% comment %}

Talk about failure evaluation! Allocate time.

Questions
  1) There have been particular sources we've kept coming back to throughout
  this course. Anything technological changes fast, so it's important to know
  where to look to find out current best practices for any kind of tech project,
  and to keep your own skills up to date.
  
  I want you to collectively create a well-organized list of sources
  to follow to keep your knowledge up-to-date.  Think broadly about this -
  professional literature? Non-LIS publications? Conferences? Blogs? Social media 
  accounts of experts? Hashtags?
  
  Create it in this world-editable google doc. I've placed this outside of
  Learn@UW so you will be able to consult it after the course is over.

  2) Answer one of the following - NOT one already answered by one of your 
  final project teammates:
    * What stakeholders would you need buy-in from if you were implementing this
      project?
    * What might you need to educate people about before you could make these
      changes?
    * What are the key arguments you would make in favor of this project? State
      them _concisely_ and without jargon.
    * What are milestones in this project when you'd definitely want to share
      your status with stakeholders?
    * What obstacles might you encounter in implementing this project? (Be 
      concrete: tie the general ideas we've seen this week to specifics about
      _your_ project.)
    * What kinds of institutional backing might you need to implement this 
      project beyond the prototype level? Think broadly and concretely:
      Funding (how much)? Training (what skills)? Hardware or software (which)?
      Staff time (whose and how much)?  High-level sponsorship (whose)?

  Feel free to engage with others' answers (whether to augment them, high-five
  the authors, or disagree) after you've posted your own.
{% endcomment %}