---
layout: default
permalink: LIS_861_Spring_2014/week2.html
title: Week 14 (Apr 28-May 4) &mdash; Project Management
---
#####Key questions

> What's the agile project management method, and why do we care?

> How do you run an effective meeting?

> What does project management look like in library technical projects?

#####Assignment
_Required_

Salo, [Project Management](http://www.slideshare.net/cavlec/project-management-16606291)

Waters, [How to Implement Scrum in 10 Easy Steps](http://www.allaboutagile.com/how-to-implement-scrum-in-10-easy-steps/),
and the 10 blog posts linked from it describing those steps

[Metz, LIS 861: Project Management](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i_H5aLx9bJg)

Rogers (PowerPoint file available in Learn@UW - make sure to read the presenter
notes)

[Ballard &amp; Teague-Rector](http://crln.acrl.org/content/72/3/132.full)

[Critchlow, Friedman, &amp; Suchy](http://journal.code4lib.org/articles/4642)

[Glendon &amp; Baumann](http://journal.code4lib.org/articles/8652)

_Optional_

[Fail4Lib preconference materials](http://lanyrd.com/2013/c4l13/scbpdt/)

> Want to know more about risk in project management? Discover how some library 
> projects have failed, and what we can learn from that.

[Library Project Management Toolkit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aCZaScfh1VsvkOH4ksZDh6exzAH7n8_mMrpnw4yINcI/edit#)

> A crowdsourced reference (you can edit it!) full of info on project management
> software, charters and one-pagers, working with stakeholders, etc.

[Metz, Managing Projects Part 1](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1fpqmmERvJucqgD68wR99tpCrQldK3jZ7UzbDFzJ7M_E/edit#slide=id.g295026e84_00) and
[Part 2](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1QYLSEM7ytla7zIUpQv-PHZ_vPqoxMVWjyTjNEa0UB78/edit#slide=id.g482df4a2_016)

> This provides more specifics on how you can implement project planning, including
> some good concrete stuff on time and budget estimation. Make sure to read the
> presenter notes.

{% comment %}
Notes
  Follow-up questions: collated questions by email is fine too
  
  don't forget to ask if they need help on the final project!! or would like to
  brag, or share things they've learned.
  
  also, the course evaluation

Questions
  have them look for unifying principles in the different project management
  approaches and tools? (agile, CR&L, one-pager...) or maybe comment on how
  agile is different from what they might have seen, and why that matters?
  
  have them analyze a memorable meeting - what worked? what didn't? what could
  you improve? (feel free to change the names and identifying details; it could
  be one you chaired or one you participated in) (maybe ask about how the process
  in general could have been better, but also about how their role could have been)
  
  how did people discover they needed more formal project management? what
  benefits did it bring? (what costs does it have?)

Definitions
  agile, scrum
  define ScrumMaster
  define "Non-functional requirements"
  (daily) stand-up meeting
  define, and diss, Waterfall model
  scope creep

Points to bring out
doing the work is easier than agreeing on WHAT work needs to be done

  communication and stakeholders
    "you must align your development team with the business." - rephrase in library
    terms, and point out that this helps with communication (scrum posts)
    "trusting the work to a small team only works if the process is very transparent 
    throughout the project." (c&rl news)
    "Before you start a redesign project invest time in training, virtual seminars, 
    discussions, etc., to cultivate true UX thinking throughout the organization"
    this and the bits about top-level management support look ahead to buy-in
    (c&rl news)
    whiteboards, communications techs, meetings

  risks and estimation
    risks (Dorothea's notes)
    note that software projects are notoriously hard to estimate, and software people
    are notoriously bad at it - this contextualizes points. Amy's trivial, half-day,
    day, week thing.
    "Ideally task estimates should be no more than 1 day. If an estimate is much larger
    than this, the requirements should be broken down further so the tasks are smaller."
    important both for accuracy and for morale.
    Sprints are SHORT compared to library timescales - talk about why.
    really emphasize that *meetings are among the most expensive things you do*.
  
  team dynamics
    "The Scrum team makes its own decisions during the Sprint. The team is empowered. 
    Every time a manager steps in and makes a decision for the team, they remove some 
    responsibility from the team. If a manager keeps doing this, the team gradually – 
    piece by piece – loses ownership, along with their commitment."
    "a large-scale redesign could not be done by committee" (C&RL News)
    goes along with the empower-your-team parts of the Agile post
    testing integrated throughout the process - like what Krug said about small tests
    often. Easier, cheaper, leads to better products.
    "daily stand-up meeting" is defined in the blog post, but emphasize 15 MINUTES MAX.
    The Sprint Retrospective meeting is not optional.
    
  meetings
    everyone has a responsibility

maybe
  5-column whiteboard system has many software implementations, e.g. Asana, Trello.
  The physical white board is better, but you can use software if you're working
  with a team across multiple institutions (e.g. association committee work!)

Notes:
Tie into organizational change - changing meeting styles can be disruptive.
Look ahead to stakeholders & buy-in.
{% endcomment %}