---
layout: default
permalink: LIS_861_Spring_2014/week2.html
title: Week 7 (Mar 3-Mar 9) &mdash; Dynamic content &amp; web programming
---
#####Key questions

> What are the Bootstrap JavaScript components, and how do they give us some new
> options for interactivity?

> How can we iterate code: make it work or make it better, e.g. by critiquing it 
> and trying new things?

#####Assignment
__Required__
Read [Bootstrap JavaScript components](http://getbootstrap.com/javascript/)  

> Review last weeks' How to Read Documentation video if needed.

Apply a bootstrap.js effect to your HTML page.

Reply to a post (not your own) in last week's Your jQuery Effect thread as follows
(pick one):

* Find a post with a script (whether it works or not). Describe what you believe 
  the script is doing, step by step, in English, and ask the original author if 
  that's accurate.  (If you're the original author, please tell them if they're 
  right!  If they're not, explain what you were going for. As a bonus, this may 
  help you understand errors in your code.)  
* Find a post where someone wants help improving the script and help them out. If 
  you know exactly what to do, go ahead and explain it or write the code. If you 
  don't, that's fine too - ask some questions that will help them clarify their 
  thinking, or find some resources that you think might help them get on the right 
  track, or explain the half you do know how to solve and ask for help on the half 
  you don't.

Iterate your jQuery from last week.  If it wasn't working, try a new strategy (get 
something simpler to work, ask for help and go from there, etc.) If it was, make 
it do something more complicated.  Post about it to last week's 'Your jQuery 
Effect' thread.

Read the [final project one-pager](./assignments/one_pager.html) and 
[final project deliverable](./assignments/final_project.html) assignments. There's
a Final Projects thread in the Content Browser > Course-wide info area you can
use to ask questions, propose ideas, and find teammates.

Discuss the Week 7 discussion forum threads.  

> Except for the questions/reflections thread, *none of these are optional*. If 
> you're having trouble with your Bootstrap effect, posting about what you've 
> tried and where you're stuck is a completely legitimate way to participate.

__Optional__

The rest of [Lynda.com jQuery for Web Designers](http://www.lynda.com/jQuery-tutorials/jQuery-Web-Designers/144204-2.html)

[Lynda.com jQuery Essential Training](http://www.lynda.com/jQuery-tutorials/essential-training/48370-2.html)  

> I found this more technical than the jQuery for Web Designers class, but you
> may find it handy to have an additional perspective.

[Building Twitter Bootstrap](http://alistapart.com/article/building-twitter-bootstrap)  

> Curious how and why Twitter built Bootstrap? Here you go!

[Progressive Enhancement with JavaScript](http://alistapart.com/article/progressiveenhancementwithjavascript)  

> You can do lots of cool stuff with JS, but possibly at a cost: e.g. making sites
> slower to load, or less accessible to users who have screenreaders, or who have
> disabled JavaScript. Progressive enhancement is the idea that the bare-bones
> version of your site (no JS, no CSS) should _work_, providing access to all the
> core content and functionality; styling and interactivity are layers on top of
> that which enhance the experience for other users. This article discusses some
> of the techniques for doing that.